feat: include default nunjucks filters and new release to the generator (#1225)
asyncapi/generator: README.md

[![AsyncAPI Generator](./assets/readme-banner.png)](https://www.asyncapi.com/tools/generator)

This is a Monorepo managed using [Turborepo](https://turbo.build/) and contains the following package:

> 1. [Generator-filters](apps/generator-filters):This is a library with generator filters that are used in more than one template. Use these filters to not double your work.

Reviewer: less important than generator, please move as last on the list and indicate it is only for Nunjucks template and that it is released together with generator by default, that no need to add it to dependencies separately

Reviewer: and yeah, make sure it is true :) so please add it to generator package.json

> 2. [Generator](apps/generator):This is a tool that you can use to generate whatever you want basing on the AsyncAPI specification file as an input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Generator](apps/generator): This is a tool that you can use to generate whatever you want basing on the AsyncAPI specification file as an input.
```

Author: added the space.

[![AsyncAPI Generator](./assets/readme-banner.png)](https://www.asyncapi.com/tools/generator)

This is a Monorepo managed using [Turborepo](https://turbo.build/) and contains the following package:

1. [Generator](apps/generator): This is a tool that you can use to generate whatever you want basing on the AsyncAPI specification file as an input.

> 2. [Generator-filters](apps/nunjucks-filters): This library contains generator filters that can be reused across multiple templates, helping to avoid redundant work. These filters are designed specifically for Nunjucks templates and are included by default with the generator, so there's no need to add then to  dependencies seprately.

Reviewer 2: "no need to add them to  dependencies seprately." instead of "no need to add then to  dependencies seprately."

Author: done.

![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@asyncapi/generator?style=for-the-badge) ![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@asyncapi/generator?style=for-the-badge)

> > :warning: This package doesn't support AsyncAPI 1.x anymore. We recommend to upgrade to the latest AsyncAPI version using the [AsyncAPI converter](https://github.com/asyncapi/converter-js). If you need to convert documents on the fly, you may use the [Node.js](https://github.com/asyncapi/converter-js) or [Go](https://github.com/asyncapi/converter-go) converters.

Reviewer 2: Delete the first ":" before warning

Reviewer 2: This package doesn't support AsyncAPI 1.x anymore. We recommend to upgrade to the latest AsyncAPI version using the [AsyncAPI converter](https://github.com/asyncapi/converter-js) (you can refer to this [installation guide](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/tools/generator/installation-guide))

Author: done.

| `@asyncapi/go-watermill-template`             | Generates Go client using Watermill                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/go-watermill-template)             |
| `@asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template`              | Generates .NET C# client using NATS                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template)              |
| `@asyncapi/php-template`                      | Generates PHP client using RabbitMQ                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/php-template)                      |
| `@asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template`          | Generates .NET C# client using RabbitMQ                         | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template)          |

<!-- TEMPLATES-LIST:END -->

You can find above templates and the ones provided by the community in **[this list](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)**

# Generator Filters

This is a library with [generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/) filters that are used in more than one template. Use these filters to not double your work.

This library consists of:

> - Custom filters. Check out [API docs](docs/api.md) for complete list

Author: ok done.

| `@asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template`          | Generates .NET C# client using RabbitMQ                         | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template)          |

<!-- TEMPLATES-LIST:END -->

You can find above templates and the ones provided by the community in **[this list](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)**

# Generator Filters

This is a library with [generator](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/) filters that are used in more than one template. Use these filters to not double your work.

This library consists of:

- Custom filters. Check out [API docs](docs/api.md) for complete list
- Lodash-powered filters. For the list of all available filters check [official docs](https://lodash.com/docs/)

## Contributing

To Add a major/minor/patch Type Changes:

1.  Create a new markdown file in the `.changeset` directory. The filename should be descriptive of the change.
2.  Add the following content to the file in this particular format:

### ---

##### "[package-name-1]": [type] (minor/major/patch)

> ##### "[package-name-2]": [type]

Reviewer: so I can add these 2 in one markdown document, and indicate that one package is fix and another is major and that would work, right?

can you also extend this paragraph with:
- link to some changeset docs
- explanation of the example, so what happens when we merge a PR with such example markdown document - what will show up in npm and what will show up in github releases section

Author: yes we can do that.

Reviewer: please add this

also something wrong with current formatting of code sample - also notice wrong indentation

![Screenshot 2024-07-22 at 13 51 44](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6b427880-06e4-41c6-abca-69282ca3aef9)

| `@asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template`              | Generates .NET C# client using NATS                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template)              |
| `@asyncapi/php-template`                      | Generates PHP client using RabbitMQ                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/php-template)                      |
| `@asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template`          | Generates .NET C# client using RabbitMQ                         | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template)          |

<!-- TEMPLATES-LIST:END -->

You can find above templates and the ones provided by the community in **[this list](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)**

# Generator Filters

This library contains generator filters that can be reused across multiple templates, helping to avoid redundant work. These filters are designed specifically for Nunjucks templates and are included by default with the generator, so there's no need to add then to  dependencies seprately.

This library consists of:

> - Custom filters. Check out [API docs](apps/generator/docs/api.md) for complete list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Custom filters. Check out [API docs](apps/nunjucks-filters/docs/api.md) for complete list
```

Author: ok updated.

| `@asyncapi/ts-nats-template`                  | Generates TypeScript NATS client                                | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/ts-nats-template/)                 |
| `@asyncapi/go-watermill-template`             | Generates Go client using Watermill                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/go-watermill-template)             |
| `@asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template`              | Generates .NET C# client using NATS                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-nats-template)              |
| `@asyncapi/php-template`                      | Generates PHP client using RabbitMQ                             | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/php-template)                      |
| `@asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template`          | Generates .NET C# client using RabbitMQ                         | [click here](https://github.com/asyncapi/dotnet-rabbitmq-template)          |

<!-- TEMPLATES-LIST:END -->

You can find above templates and the ones provided by the community in **[this list](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate)**

# Generator Filters

> This library contains generator filters that can be reused across multiple templates, helping to avoid redundant work. These filters are designed specifically for Nunjucks templates and are included by default with the generator, so there's no need to add then to  dependencies seprately.

Reviewer 2: " so there's no need to add them to dependencies seprately."
 instead of 
 " so there's no need to add then to  dependencies seprately."

Author: done.

This library consists of:

- Custom filters. Check out [API docs](apps/nunjucks-filters/docs/api.md) for complete list
- Lodash-powered filters. For the list of all available filters check [official docs](https://lodash.com/docs/)

> ## Contributing

Reviewer: this section should stay as it was 

all below steps should be in a separate section like `## Release process`

Author: done.

> To Add a major/minor/patch Type Changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To release a major/minor/patch:
```

> To Add a major/minor/patch Type Changes:

Reviewer: what about conventional commits, they are still used right?

Reviewer: simply specify that we use conventional commits to have a clear git history of commits and so we can quickly figure out what given commit changed, and if it was release triggering

that feat and fix prefixes are needed to trigger changeset

Author: done.

### Manual

> 1.  Create a new markdown file in the `.changeset` directory. The filename should be descriptive of the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Create a new markdown file in the `.changeset` directory. The filename should indicate what the change is about.
```

2.  Add the following content to the file in this particular format:

> ```markdown
> ---
> "@package-name-1": [type] (major/minor/patch)
> "@package-name-2": [type]
> ---
> 
> [Provide a brief description of the changes. For example: Added a new Release GitHub Flow to the Turborepo. No new features or bugfixes were introduced.]
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```markdown
    ---
    "@package-name-1": [type] (major/minor/patch)
    "@package-name-2": [type]
    ---

    [Provide a brief description of the changes. For example: Added a new Release GitHub Flow to the Turborepo. No new features or bugfixes were introduced.]
    ```
```

Reviewer 2: After the format example, I would add something like the following to better explain each part of the markdown file:

Inside the file, list the affected packages by their names, such as @package-name-1, followed by the type of change, which can be `major`, `minor`, or `patch`. The type should be specified in parentheses. For example, if you made a non-breaking feature addition to the `@asyncapi/generator` package, you would list it as `"@asyncapi/generator": minor`. 

After listing all relevant packages and their change types, provide a brief description of the changes made. This description should include a clear summary of what was added, fixed, or improved, and why these changes were necessary.

> #### For Example:
> ```markdown
> ---
> "@asyncapi/generator": minor
> ---
> 
> Adding new Release Github Flow to the Turborepo.No new features or bugfixes were introduced.
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For Example:
    
    ```markdown
    ---
    "@asyncapi/generator": minor
    ---

    Adding new Release Github Flow to the Turborepo.No new features or bugfixes were introduced.

    ```
```

Reviewer 2: After the format example, I would add something like the following to better explain each part of the markdown file:

Inside the file, list the affected packages by their names, such as @package-name-1, followed by the type of change, which can be major, minor, or patch. The type should be specified in parentheses. For example, if you made a non-breaking feature addition to the @asyncapi/generator package, you would list it as "@asyncapi/generator": minor.

After listing all relevant packages and their change types, provide a brief description of the changes made. This description should include a clear summary of what was added, fixed, or improved, and why these changes were necessary.

### Using CLI
```cli 
npx -p @changesets/cli changeset
```

> 3. Simply push the changes with your PR.

Reviewer: sorry but what does it mean?

using cli I run npm and then push changes and that is it? where is step 1 and 2? what about the description of the release and the scope? CLI will figure it out on its own?

Reviewer 2: I also don't really understand this part. Right now there are three `#` before both Using CLI and Manual, making it seem like "Using CLI" is an alternative to "Manual". However, reading the content, it seems to me that developers should use CLI after they manually add the markdown file in `.changeset`? If my understanding is correct, there should be 4 # before the "Using CLI".

Author: no actually this is alternative to manual.

Reviewer: @ayushnau remember that if there are 2 folks confused with instructions/code in a similar way, there is no way and you need too address it, improve instructions or add proper code comments for future.

for now I did edit the instructions for you

> ### Documentation Link 
> For more detailed instructions, you can refer to the official documentation for creating a changeset:
> [Adding a changeset](https://github.com/changesets/changesets/blob/main/docs/adding-a-changeset.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> For more detailed instructions, you can refer to the official documentation for creating a changeset:
[Adding a changeset](https://github.com/changesets/changesets/blob/main/docs/adding-a-changeset.md)
```

### Release Flow:

1. **Add a Changeset**:
   - When you make changes that need to be released, create a markdown file in the `.changeset` directory stating the package name and level of change (major/minor/patch). 

2. **Open a Pull Request**:
   - Push your changes and open a Pull Request (PR). The changeset file helps communicate the type of changes (major, minor, patch).

> 3. **CI Processes Changeset**:

Reviewer: you mean after PR is merged? please make it clear

Author: done.

>    - During the CI/CD pipeline, the following `changesets/action` step runs:

Reviewer: no need to provide content of the workflow, just explanation

Author: done.

     ```yaml
     uses: changesets/action@v1
     id: release
     with:
       version: npx -p @changesets/cli changeset version
       commit: "feat: version packages"
       title: "feat: version packages"
       publish: npx -p @changesets/cli changeset publish
       setupGitUser: false
     ```

   - This action reads the markdown files in the `.changeset` folder and creates a PR with the updated version of the package and removes the markdown file. For example:

     Before:
     ```json
     "name": "@asyncapi/generator",
     "version": "2.0.1",
     ```

     After:
     ```json
     "name": "@asyncapi/generator",
     "version": "3.0.1",
     ```

   - The new PR will also contain the description from the markdown files.

> 4. **Merge the Versioning PR**:

Reviewer: versioning PR? isn't it also a release triggering PR?

Author: done

   - Once the versioning PR is created, it should be merged (automatically by the bot in this case).

5. **Release the Package**:

>    - After the PR is merged, the CI/CD pipeline runs again. The `changesets/action` step detects that the PR was created by itself and runs the `publish` command to release the package.

Reviewer: can you specify basing on what conditions this happens?

Author: done.
